---
title: "Happy Anniversary and 1st Summit - Paretetaitonga (2751m) 6th September 2008"
date: 2008-09-01
author: "Bridie Allen"
location: "Taranaki"
locations: ["Taranaki"]
tags: ["Alpine", "Ski"]
source: "Vertigo Newsletter — Vertigo 200810 Oct"
draft: false
---

Bridie & Ben Allen, Jo Langridge and Stuart Clark After a not so Alpine start, leaving the top o’ the Bruce at 9am we took the easy option to the top of National Chairlift and walked up the west side of Whakapapa ski field. At the top of the Far West T Bar we traversed south to gain the Northwest Ridge. Ben and I had completed the AIC with TTC last winter based at Whakapapa in terrible weather conditions. Before today we hadn’t even see the top from this side of the mountain let alone been near the summit. Between work commitments and poor weather this was our first good day on the hill. And what a great day it was! Bluebird skies and unlimited visibility, but a brisk southerly breeze that was unforgiving when we stopped to get crampons on. I experienced for the first time the agony of blood returning to fingertips after a period of numbness from the cold. Stunning views of a snow covered Ngauruhoe and Taranaki peeking out above the clouds made me wonder why people stay in the city for their weekends. Beautiful snow conditions made for easy progress up the ridge. We encountered a few Gendarmes and had to drop off the ridge to get past. These enormous bulges of snow and ice were decorated with shimmering icicles; some of us couldn’t resist the childish act of breaking them off to eat! The temperature out of the wind was an amazing 20 degrees warmer than in exposed places! From the summit (after the compulsory summit jig and photos) we enjoyed panoramic views of the Summit Plateau with the Crater Lake decorating the vista; a milky shade of aqua. Descending towards the lake, eagerly anticipating lunch I learned about crampons ‘balling up’ and how it feels similar to roller-skating down hill without brakes! A picnic near the lake followed by a wander up to Dome shelter was making for a very pleasant way to spend a Saturday and fourth wedding anniversary for Ben and I. Jo learnt her lesson for the day after doing the ‘pocket haka’ with no relief. She dropped her pack and retraced her steps to the last known location of their camera – this was a good test of Fiancée` Stu’s patience and understanding especially when it was nowhere to be found! During an uneventful descent via the Summit Plateau through The Notch we dropped into an airy mist under Pinnacle Ridge. A little late for a hot drink at the cafes or a chair ride down we enjoyed a warm, windless, walk over newly groomed pistes back to the car park. A great day out that roused an appetite for a hearty steak dinner, glass of red wine and a well earned restful nights sleep. Two down, ten to go to complete the twelve summits of Ruapehu. Bridie Allen Coming Soon………