---
title: "Pleasant (Objectiveless) Days at Ruapehu"
date: 2004-09-01
author: "Mike Peat"
authors: ["Mike Peat"]
location: "Coromandel"
locations: ["Coromandel"]
tags: ["Alpine", "Tramping", "Ski"]
source: "Vertigo Newsletter — Vertigo 200409 Sep"
draft: false
---

Having recently moved back to the North Island after being in the South for a few years I was curious to see what climbing and tramping opportunities were present on Ruapehu.  On this trip I discovered that one of its most endearing features is the presence of routes and objectives for alpinists and trampers of all abilities. On Saturday morning Garth, Cat, Kris, Rachael, Simon and I decided on an objective (even though we didn’t call it that) to  Glacier Knob. Starting up the ridge from the Manawatu Ski Club Lodge, a moderate climb alongside the ski field reaching steeper slopes with some nice firm snow higher up. The weather got a bit claggy occasionally but on the whole it remained pleasant with clear blue sky, opening up marvellous views of the Plateau down below us once we got up to the tops at lunch time. Descended after lunch in plenty of time to take advantage of hospitality offered at Manawatu Ski Lodge (and beers from Kris). Sunday morning we enthusiastically decided to take the chair lifts up to the Pinnacles area to have a climb around.  Great weather and nice conditions for some front pointing.  Opportunities for those of us wanting to have a general “try” as well as some more challenging slopes. Headed back down at lunchtime, some refreshment en route and ready to leave for the trip home around 2pm. Very pleasant and enjoyable weekend. Future visits to explore more of what Ruapehu has to offer definitely planned. Trip participants: Garth London, Angie London, Simon Romanos, Inez Romanos, Kris Perrson, Kat Robinson, Craig Robinson, Rachael Schmidt, Vanessa Johnson. Vanessa Johnson Pinnacles On the weekend of 24/25 July, David Jewell, Yibai He and Mike Peat went ice climbing at the Pinnacles. On Saturday we focussed on the Grand Pinnacle area, “Chiming Bells” was climbed with us leading a pitch each of this classic 3 pitch climb. The short ice pillar on the 3rd pitch had not formed at all and the overhang where this normally forms had to be turned by climbing the rock to the right. Neither of the other classics, “Gorilla” or “Tequila Sunrise” had formed at all. We spent Sunday at Pink Floyd Buttress where better conditions were found, though it was still rather thin. We climbed “Delicate Sound of Thunder” and “Comfortably Numb” with leads being shared by Yibai and Mike, while David spent the day riding the middle of the rope on account of a nasty split in his crampon strap. To round off an enjoyable weekend we climbed the Knoll Ridge café waterfall on the way home. Mike Peat