---
title: "SKI MOUNTAINEERING IN THE AXIS OF GOOD"
date: 2007-06-01
tags: ["Ski Touring", "Alpine", "Ski"]
source: "Vertigo Newsletter — Vertigo 200706 Jun"
draft: false
---

From Easter to Anzac Weekend and beyond John Wild, Wilf Dickerson, Clinton Wadsw orth and John Nankervis were in Iran with touring skis and other m ountain paraphernalia. In between bouts of m osque watching, carpet bagging, eating and talking to many friendly Persians they had a day at the Dizin ski field (top at 3,600 metres) and a week ski touring in the Alborz Mountains. Starting from Rudbarak ( 5 hours northwest of Tehran by road) where there is a capacious  Iranian Mountaineering Federation lodge, they went up the Sardab Rud (river) and used cam ps at 2,850 and 3,550 m etres as ski m ountaineering bases. They clim bed Menareh (4,378m) and the North and High peaks of Gardon Kuh (4,402m ). An attempt on Alam Kuh (4,850m and Iran's second highest) was foiled just short of the top by a snowstorm. There are endless opportunities for ski touring, not only in the Alborz but also in the Zagros m ountains in the south and the ranges of the northwest near the Turkish and Arm enian frontiers. And Iranian climbers are very helpful,  friendly, and keen to know m ore about New Zealand. John Nankervis AVALANCHE STAGE ONE COURSE An Avalanche Stage 1 course is being run on Whakapapa Ski field from 24th – 31 st August 2007. It is based at Levin-Waiopehu Ski club hut at the Top of the Bruce. The course cost is $650 inc. G ST for NZ residents. Costs include all accommodation, food, course material and tuition. Tutors will be Bill Atkinson and H enry Worsp. If y ou are interested in attending please email your postal address and enrolm ent forms will be forwarded. Wayne Putt Programme Manager Outdoor Adventure Whitireia Polytechnic Mohuia Cres. Porirua (04) 2384649 (027) 271 8293 w.putt@whitireia.ac.nz