---
title: "Tararua Lovers Community (?? Not my name for it – Ed.)"
date: 2005-03-01
location: "Mount Cook"
locations: ["Mount Cook"]
tags: ["Alpine"]
source: "Vertigo Newsletter — Vertigo 200503 Mar"
draft: false
---

“I'm setting up a new web site aimed at celebrating the Tararua Ranges - the mountains and bush itself and the people who have spent time enjoying this wonderful natural habitat (http://tlc.dazcorp.com) What I'd like to do is offer site visitors a place to come to on the web where they can: • read stories of peoples trips and experiences in these ranges (trip reports, amusing stories, events etc) and • view photographs of the Tararuas and people enjoying their leisure time in these ranges What I'd like to ask you is would you or any of your members be interested in sharing their stories or photographs on my site? Naturally I'll accord credit to the owner unless otherwise instructed but I can't offer any payment other than the kudos that comes from helping others to share and enjoy the Tararua 'experience'. It's a non-commercial site so nothing is being sold and it's not intended to generate any monetary returns. No personal information is sought nor will any personal information be recorded by me other than that necessary for correspondence with those people who are willing to share their stories/articles/photos. Naturally this will be in strictest confidence. I truly hope that you can help out and join me in sharing what is a fabulous natural treasure at our combined doorsteps. If you or any of your membership are interested in accepting my invitation then I would be glad to hear from you via email. If you have any concerns you would like to discuss or would simply like to speak with me in the first instance about the site or anything related to this project please feel free to contact me on my cell phone 027 304 0094 or pass on your contact tel and I will be in touch. Thank you for your time and I hope to hear from you soon! =) Kind Regards, Darrell Mayson email: webmaster@tlc.dazcorp.com or dmays1967@xtra.co.nz , mob.: 027 304 0094 Survey “My name is Rodney Garrard and I was a section member of the Wellington side of things last year, when I could make the meetings that is!. The reason I am writing is that I have moved to Wanaka for 2005. I am undertaking a thesis looking at the waste management issues in Aoraki/Mt Cook National Park. The reason I am writing is that I have just had my questionnaire accepted by the ethics committee at Victoria University to use climbers/mountaineers/skiers in the Aoraki/Mt Cook N/park area as my research subjects. I plan to distribute as many of the questionnaires to the alpine huts within the park but was also wondering if you would like to ask the members in the meeting (that have recently been climbing in the park, those after Sep 2004') whether they would be interested in completing the questionnaire? “ Contact the Ed (rs@nzalpine.wellington.net.nz) if you can help Rodney out with his survey.