---
title: "L’alpinisme au Presidente"
date: 2004-10-01
location: "European Alps"
locations: ["European Alps"]
tags: ["Alpine"]
source: "Vertigo Newsletter — Vertigo 200410 Oct"
draft: false
---

After three weeks climbing in France and Switzerland in August, I can happily recommend climbing in Western Europe to fellow Alpine Club members. It's highly enjoyable -- in part because there are some key differences between climbing in Europe and climbing in New Zealand. For a start, access to the mountains in France and Switzerland is often much easier than in New Zealand. Gondolas, chair-lifts, and even cog railways can whisk you into alpine areas quickly (and far less expensively than Kiwis usually pay for rides in helicopters and ski-planes). What is more, alpine huts in Europe cannot be compared with New Zealand huts. The "refuges" I stayed in last month in Switzerland and France were more akin to hotels. In addition to beds, most European alpine huts provide breakfast and dinner -- and dinner is often a three-course meal. In the Gouter Hut on Mont Blanc (which is situated at 3,817 metres -- i.e. higher than the summit of Mt Cook), meals were even served on china plates decorated with the French Alpine Club's logo! The bunk rooms in all the huts I stayed in were equipped with pillows and blankets. The result of these little luxuries (no, I tell a lie -- they are whopping great luxuries!) is that one does not have to carry a sleeping bag, nor does one have to carry a stove or much food when you are climbing in the European Alps. This means that your pack weighs less -- far, far less -- than when you are climbing in New Zealand, and that makes climbing all the more enjoyable. Added to these advantages is the fact that weather patterns in Europe are slower moving and more stable than those in New Zealand. This is because the Southern Alps are situated on a narrow island in the middle of a very large ocean, whereas the European Alps are, of course, part of a large land mass. Good weather in Europe can last for weeks rather than days. Without doubt, the holiday I've just had in Europe (three weeks in France and Switzerland, followed by a week of friends, relatives and culture in the UK) was one of the most enjoyable breaks I've ever had. The differences between climbing in New Zealand and in Europe certainly contributed to that. As that well-known French statement puts is, "Viva la difference!" Nigel Roberts Taranaki Alpine Club 75th Jubilee The Taranaki Alpine Club’s 75th Jubilee is now being planned for Queens Birthday weekend (4th & 5th June 2005) and will be held in New Plymouth. The theme of the reunion will be TripsOutings-Events.  If you have any photographs or slides that you would like to contribute for inclusion at the celebrations please contact: John Jordan, Convener 75th Jubilee Committee 254 Johns Rd, RD8, Inglewood, New Zealand phone/fax 06 7624752, email jd.jordan@xtra.co.nz Freda du Faur I've started up a bit of a project to place a headstone for Freda du Faur over here in Sydney. I'm originally from South Canterbury and interested in climbing hence my involvement. I tracked down Freda's unmarked grave in the Manly cemetery after reading her biography 'Between Heaven and Earth'. A mate of mine who's a reporter with the Timaru Herald was over recently and I took him to the site which resulted in a story in the Herald. Since then Stu at the Herald, has received some donations and support for the actual headstone (a piece of Greywacke from the Mackenzie) plus what looks like a free flight to get it here c/o Air NZ.  I'm talking to the Manly Council and local historic society here to cover this end. Maybe members would be interested in providing input in the form of a donation or thoughts about how we should go about any of this.  We are aiming to get the headstone over here about late November (TBC). The whole cost for the headstone including simple brass plaque seems to be under NZD$1,500 delivered in Manly, though we are still working on costs for mounting etc..  We are also wondering what the inscription should be. Donations/Inquiries should go to the Timaru Herald c/o Stu Piddington. 03 684 4129 Ashley Gualter The answer to Quiz Number 12 The Chairperson's twelfth quiz question was: Which opera has the line "I'm sweating like a mountain climber"? The answer is Puccini's "Madame Butterfly" (the line is sung by the American consul, Sharpless, after he's climbed a hill above Nagasaki). Despite having two months to find the answer, none of you did, proving perhaps that sport and culture do not mix. Quiz Number 13 Nigel Roberts' thirteenth quiz question sticks strictly to climbing. Inspired by his recent visit to Zermatt, where there's a plaque commemorating Edward Whymper's first ascent of the mountain in 1865, Nigel wants to know who was the first woman to climb the Matterhorn. Email your answers to <chairperson@nzalpine.wellington.net.nz> by no later than 12 noon on Sunday, 3 October 2004. Be sure to put Quiz Number 13 in the email subject line (or else your email is highly likely to be destroyed as spam!). The winning entry will be drawn at the Monday, 4 October, section night, and the winner will receive a bottle of good white wine.