---
title: "Never mind Mt Pollux, here’s the story"
date: 2003-06-01
location: "Kaikoura / Inland Kaikōura"
locations: ["Kaikoura / Inland Kaikōura"]
tags: ["Alpine"]
source: "Vertigo Newsletter — Vertigo 200306 Jun"
draft: false
---

Easter Monday saw seven pairs of headlamps starting off around 6am. The climbers left perhaps 3 cm later, or at about 6 am and 1/1000 of a second. Sally and Garth turned back after a while for a civilised lie in [not together we hope, although that would be most civilised! Ed.], while the rest ascended the glacier, again following Don’s excellent lead - well, sometimes following his tracks as he was way in the distance. The interesting route comprised some climbing over crevasses and abseiling down a wall onto the Donald Glacier, followed by more short vertical ice, crevasses and nevé until we reached the summit ridge. The ridge included a “friendly pitch” (a fixed Friend conveniently wedged above a steep rock step) followed by the “eye of the needle” pitch, which involved some crawling (easier for the petit lasses than the tall lads). By an early lunch the summit of Mt Pollux had finally been climbed by Don and James, followed shortly after by Dave and Kathleen, and the ‘C’ team (the other six) made a more civilised lunch time summit of about 1pm. Probably more ascents than this mountain usually sees in a year!! Other mountains climbed on the trip included Mt Awful (Dave and Kathleen) and Mt Betsy-Jane (Kevin and Julien). Mt Awful is a misnomer, as it has wonderful solid rock and some great climbing. Should be called Awesome! Special thanks must go to Angie, for being our base camp manager, and copiously plying us with hot tea on our arrivals and saving bunks! Words by Kathleen Logan, sorry about the absent picture by Caroline Duggan Details * Don, James, Dave, Kathleen, Alan, Caroline, Nicky, Kevin, Julien, Pete, Chitty & Jenny climbed Mt Pollux (2,536m) on April 21, 2003. * Julien & Kevin climbed Mt Betsy Jane (2,168m) on April 25, 2003. * Dave & Kathleen climbed Mt Awful (2,192m) on April 25, 2003. * Sally, Garth, Angie, Nicky, Chitty, Jenny, Alan & Caroline looked at Mt Alba (2,360m) from Crucible Lake on April 25, 2003 but decided to leave the summit attempt for another day.