---
title: "FREE PIES AND VEHICLE GYMNASTICS"
date: 2003-11-01
author: "Sean Kelly"
authors: ["Sean Kelly"]
location: "Canterbury"
locations: ["Canterbury"]
tags: ["Alpine"]
source: "Vertigo Newsletter — Vertigo 200311 Nov"
draft: false
---

In early October we (Kevin Patterson, Jane Furkert, Mark Vickers, Paul Clarke and Sean Kelly) travelled to Arthur’s Pass for an attempt on Mt Rolleston (2275m). Accompanied by Jenny Henshaw (now living in Chch) and Sam, we all travelled from Chch in Jenny and Sam’s cars late on Friday night. Once Castle Hill had been gained, we were treated to a glorious moonlight sky and there was much drooling over acres of tasty boulderable rock. 5am on Saturday morning saw Kevin reporting an encouraging clear-ish sky so we quickly (relatively) ate breakfast and packed our gear. By 6.15 am we were on our way up through the trees on the Rome Ridge track. Very high clouds were observed with a ominous looking front to the north. Despite a five hour sleep and one upset belly (Mark’s baked beans) we were making excellent progress. Six hours, two buttresses, one exposed ridge, one pitch and one dropped brand new piece of equipment later we found ourselves at the top of a very steep notch in the ridge. Together with weather front and time issues, it was decided that we would retreat the way we came. So, nine hours of backwards down-climbing, two buttresses, piles of soft snow, one ‘GPC assisted’ 200m course correction and a beautiful blue sky later we found ourselves back at the car (fetched by Kevin). After much driving around and depositing cars (Sam and Jenny had piked out and done a 32km run instead) it was 9pm and a search for food was on. Arthur’s Pass closes quite early it seems. A quick drive to Bealey Pub and we returned with 6 free pies (thanks!) Sunday morning found us in a conference discussing what the day would entail. Due to sore legs, weather and flagging enthusiasm we decided on a trip to the Otira viaduct (exciting I know) and a boulder at Castle Hill on the way to Pizza Hut (have they paid us to promote them this month? Ed) in Chch. Time marched on and despite a very bad knee and rain it was difficult to drag Mark away from the boulders so we could go home. Pizza and more vehicle gymnastics saw us on the plane and home on time. Thanks to Kevin for organising the trip, and special thanks to Jenny and Sam for the use of their cars. Sean Kelly